[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Of the 175
novels you have out there,
they're all different.
>>KEVIN J. ANDERSON: I just
can't write them fast enough.
Every time I finish one--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>ANDERSON: --I
think of two more.
My brain is just kind of wired
that, when I see something,
I think, oh, that would
make a good story.
Or what if this happened
instead of that?
One of the things that I
think science fiction has done
is sort of prepared
people for possibilities.
I mean, "The X-Files,"
for season after season,
just showed us, here's something
maybe you didn't know about
or even consider.
I want us to have
the future that I
dreamed about when I was that
kid reading science fiction.
The things that are
mysterious out there, to me,
just adds this magic and a
sense of wonder to the world.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>NOORY: Well, welcome back
to another great edition
of "Beyond Belief."
Kevin J. Anderson
with us, author
of 175 novels ranging from
science fiction to fantasy
to horror.
He has written for "Star Wars,"
"Dune," "X-Files," "Star Trek,"
and more.
What a career!
How can you be so prolific?
>>ANDERSON: I just make
up stuff all the time.
>>NOORY: You must
live at a typewriter.
>>ANDERSON: Well, no.
I do my writing when
I'm out dictating.
I get inspired by nature
when I'm out talking.
And I just tell
stories to myself,
and I'm just happy that
millions of other people
like to read them too.
>>NOORY: And you remember
it and come back and make it
into a book form.
>>ANDERSON: Well, I
dictate it into a recorder,
and I have a typist
who transcribes it.
In fact, the drive up
here to this interview,
I wrote a part of a short story.
>>NOORY: Rod Serling would
do exactly what you're doing.
He would sit in his pool,
floating with a Dictaphone,
doing "Twilight Zone"
episodes on the ones he wrote.
And his secretary
would transcribe it.
>>ANDERSON: Well, I live here
in Colorado where we're filming,
and it's just a beautiful
place with all the mountains.
And I can do the
Great Sand Dunes
when I'm writing a "Dune" novel.
I can be up in the
snowy mountains
when I'm doing a big,
epic fantasy or something.
>>NOORY: Fantastic.
>>ANDERSON: And there have been
all kinds of studies about--
your creativity gets
unlocked when you're
doing some physical activity.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ANDERSON: And so I
like to just go walk.
I've done 25 miles in a day.
Just on the Colorado trail, I'll
go in these beautiful venues
and huge, open nature.
And it just inspires me
to see what's possible.
>>NOORY: Just wandering around.
>>ANDERSON: Well,
kind of on a trail.
But I know where I'm going, and
I know where I'm coming back.
>>NOORY: You must
have been, as a child,
fascinated with science fiction.
>>ANDERSON: Well, I grew up in
this very small, isolated town
in Wisconsin.
So it was like the
typical Midwestern farming
town, where I was the only
kid who read comic books.
I was the only kid who
watched monster movies
every Saturday afternoon
instead of going out
and play like normal kids.
I would stay in, and
I'd watch the Chicago
station of sci-fi cinema.
And I just watched over and
over again the UFO movies--
>>NOORY: I'm the same way.
>>ANDERSON: --the
Godzilla movies.
And because the environment
there was so normal,
my imagination just
was hungry, and I
wanted to figure out things.
And I would look up
at the stars at night.
I had a little telescope.
And I would just,
like, what's out there?
And I would make up stories.
And I read all kinds of myths
and legends and history.
And they all became
stories to me,
and I just can't write
them fast enough.
Every time I finish one,
I think of two more.
>>NOORY: Did you ever--
with your little telescope
because I had one too--
look at the stars and think
of them as, perhaps, UFOs,
wanting them to move?
And you're trying to
think, move, move, move.
Did you ever do that?
>>ANDERSON: Well, I
had a subscription
to "Astronomy Magazine."
So I had all these charts,
and I could go look in here
and see if you can
find a globular cluster
or look and find the
Andromeda Galaxy.
>>NOORY: --or Jupiter.
>>ANDERSON: Or Jupiter.
And you could see
the moons of Jupiter.
And the things that I could
see and label were one thing,
but there was a million
other things there
that I didn't know
what they were.
I just let my imagination
roam and think,
well, how far away is this?
Is there somebody on that little
dot that's looking back at us?
>>NOORY: I know my
father and mother
got me a little telescope
when I was a kid.
And when I looked at
the moon, I was in awe
because you could
actually see the craters.
>>ANDERSON: And you could
see the shadows and the lines
and the mountains.
>>NOORY: And then I looked
at Jupiter and saw those four
moons of the many Jupiter has--
but the four big ones
just standing out.
But what really captured
my attention, Kevin--
when I looked at Saturn.
>>ANDERSON: All the rings.
>>NOORY: And you could
see the small, little ring
around the planet.
I've never seen anything
like that in my life.
>>ANDERSON: Well, and
you know it's real.
I mean, I had seen
"Astronomy Magazine"--
like the photos, all the
Hubble Space Telescope
photos and everything.
And of course they're
way better than what
you see through the telescope,
but you're seeing it
through your own eyes.
You're taking it into
your heart and your mind,
knowing that there's
another planet out there,
another set of moons out
there, a whole universe.
I wanted to tell
stories about it.
I just kept thinking of alien
cultures or magic systems
and wizards.
And I didn't make
any distinction.
It just all seemed--
fascinating things
to me that I liked.
>>NOORY: Is that what
fueled your ability
to write so many novels?
>>ANDERSON: Yeah, I
feel like, if I ever
stopped writing, my
head would explode,
that I've primed the pump.
>>NOORY: Too much info.
>>ANDERSON: I'm up to speed now.
I kind of got this
momentum going.
And every time I
look at something--
I watch the news, and
I read science news,
and I read things--
and I just go, well,
what if that went wrong?
Or what if something-- and you
just extrapolate from there.
And I've learned how to-- like
a basketball player knows how
to make an easy--
>>NOORY: Dunk shot.
>>ANDERSON: --dunk shot, I
just know how to do a story.
>>NOORY: How would you
categorize yourself?
As a science writer, a
science fiction writer,
a paranormalist?
Well, how would you
categorize yourself?
>>ANDERSON: I'm a storyteller.
I'm not like the person
that English professors
analyze my metaphors and
go over every sentence,
but I tell a darn, good story.
Characters are all
over in my head.
I know so many different people,
and I take pieces of them
to create my own characters.
I really understand
story structure.
And like I said, by
studying myths and legends,
I have all the raw
material for fantasy.
By studying astronomy
and science news,
it gives me jumping points for
doing a biological plague story
or an AI meltdown kind of story
or different things like that.
And I just love the stories
and the plots that happen.
>>NOORY: And your
work show that.
>>ANDERSON: And I love
entertaining other people.
>>NOORY: How did
you get involved
in the paranormal
aspect of this.
>>ANDERSON: Well, part of it
is, I worked for the "X-Files"
for quite a while.
And before that, of course,
I had been reading--
I remember when I
was in eighth grade,
I read a bunch of the
"Project Blue Book" books.
And just looking at
the old, grainy photos,
the classic photos of old UFO
sightings or Bigfoot sightings.
And all of it made me wonder
what's really out there.
And I found that
exciting, not terrifying.
I really want to clarify
that, that I found
the fact that there are
things we don't know
and the things that are
mysterious out there, to me,
just adds this magic and a
sense of wonder to the world.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ANDERSON: And I think writing
science fiction kind of helps
prepare the audience
to have an open mind
to see different possibilities.
>>NOORY: Do you know former
FBI Agent John DeSouza,
by any chance?
>>ANDERSON: I don't think so.
No.
>>NOORY: OK.
I spoke to him on the
program about covering up
paranormal phenomena.
Is the government doing that?
Take a look at this, Kevin.
What does this tell you?
What are you convinced
is happening?
>>JOHN DESOUZA: What I'm
convinced is happening--
>>NOORY: I'm sure you
have a conclusion by now.
>>DESOUZA: --is that we
have alien visitors who
are trying to reach
out to us all the time.
And we have this
opposing force--
irresistible, opposing force--
>>NOORY: Here?
>>DESOUZA: Here-- of
mainstream authorities
that are determined to keep
us from this knowledge, even
when it's right in
front of our eyes, even
when it's completely obvious.
>>NOORY: They can't
hide this stuff.
>>DESOUZA: They cannot hide it.
All they can do is
falsify after the fact.
All they can do is mutter
off things like icicles, ice
debris, and nonsense like that.
And unfortunately, we're
still so culturally trained
that people still believe.
>>NOORY: I was
going to say that.
People would be more
apt to believe what
the government feeds them--
>>DESOUZA: Yes.
>>NOORY: --than what
you actually see.
>>DESOUZA: Yes, which is insane.
That is insanity because
these things are reaching out
for us every day.
They are being shown to us
right in front of our faces.
And yet, we are still
deferring to NASA
and government entities that are
just doing what they're told.
They are told to cover
this up, and so they just
follow the orders.
They follow orders.
>>NOORY: Thank our
lucky stars, Kevin,
we have writers like you who
use science fiction and science
to get the word out because
I think DeSouza's right.
>>ANDERSON: And just
how every many--
six months ago or so, when
they finally declassified some
of the stuff--
it was very interesting
to me because I
know a lot of actual
astrophysicists
and NASA scientists
and military people.
And before that
happened, a bunch of them
were coming to
me, saying, you've
got to pay attention to this.
Something big is going
to be coming out.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ANDERSON: The stuff
was coming to me.
I mean, they didn't
reveal anything to me,
but they were saying,
this is really serious.
And the fact that
these were people
that I was in awe of, that
I really respected them
and their opinions were not--
I mean, these weren't just crazy
people who jumped on anything.
These were people
that are somebody
that I would listen to.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ANDERSON: And
they really thought
that there was something there.
And so that made me pay a
whole lot more attention to it.
>>NOORY: Well, and you can tell
that you put that influence
into your works.
>>ANDERSON: Well,
one of the things
that I think science
fiction has done
is sort of prepared a lot
of people for possibilities.
I mean, "The X-Files" week after
week, for season after season
just showed us, here's something
maybe you didn't know about
or even consider.
Here's something that
might be happening
that you can use
your imagination
and pay attention to.
It's not all true.
But some of it might
be interesting,
and it might be something
that you can consider.
>>NOORY: Do you think
there's alien life out there?
>>ANDERSON: Oh, absolutely.
I don't know that
they're showing up here
in laundromat parking lots, but
I think that they are certainly
out here.
>>NOORY: But maybe.
>>ANDERSON: Maybe.
I think that the best line that
"The X-Files" ever came up with
was, I want to believe.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: I think that
that summarizes everything.
And I'll be a skeptic
until you prove it to me,
but I want to be open-minded,
and I want to see something.
>>NOORY: Are you familiar with
the work of the late Zecharia
Sitchin?
>>ANDERSON: No, I'm not.
>>NOORY: OK.
He's not with us
anymore, but he believes
that the Anunnaki came
from another planet they
called Nibiru, which is a
planet in our solar system.
It's on a 3,600-year
elliptical orbit.
And they came here and seeded
us from whatever creatures
were on the planet at the
time and played around
and manipulated us.
It's an amazing concept.
But he gets all that
from Sumerian texts
that he found in
cuneiforms-- clay tablets.
It's an amazing story.
>>ANDERSON: Wow.
Somebody should write
a novel about that.
>>NOORY: Somebody should.
I think I'm looking at him.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
Well, that's a lot of research.
If you're doing this,
even if it is fiction--
and I make very clear.
I'm just writing novels.
I'm writing fiction.
But that requires
a lot of research
because I have to know more
than I put into the writing.
And in the writing, it has to
be convincing enough so that
my readers-- even the
most skeptical readers--
will think that
this is possible.
Otherwise, they're
not going to follow me
through to the end of the book.
>>NOORY: Of the 175
novels you have out there,
they're all different.
And then they're all related
in some form or fashion.
What fascinates you about
what you write about, Kevin?
>>ANDERSON: See, I
write different--
I mean, some of them
are kind of fantasy,
magical, "Lord of the
Rings" kind of things.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ANDERSON: And other ones
are big, epic science fiction,
like the "Dune" work I do.
I've got big-- they're called
space operas, like "Star Trek"
or "The Expanse" and things.
And then there are
other ones that
are sort of dark
fantasy, horror,
thrillers with vampires,
serial killers,
hauntings, things like that.
You wear a different
hat when you're writing
different ones of those.
It's like, one night
I'll cook Italian,
and another night I'll cook
Indian food or something
like that.
So it's a different skill
set to bring to those.
But because I feel like I want
to convey these great stories
and a sense of wonder--
that's the through line, I
think, through all of my stuff,
is this sense of wonder
and possibilities.
>>NOORY: If you don't think
we've been contacted by ETs,
but you believe
they're out there,
are you open to the
possibility that one day we
will be contacted by them?
>>ANDERSON: Oh, and I didn't
say that we haven't been.
There's two different
parts to your question.
Like, are there alien
life forms out there?
Well, when I look up
through my telescope--
>>NOORY: Absolutely, slam dunk.
>>ANDERSON: --and I
see billions of stars,
it is inconceivable
that, even just
by rolling the genetic
dice, that something
didn't happen out there.
There are a whole
bunch of factors
as to whether they
have the ability
to cross interstellar space--
whether their civilization is
in existence at the same time
that our civilization is.
In all those stars, there could
be the biggest galactic empire
out there, but it faded
away 10 million years ago.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: And
there are all sorts
of reasons why just the
energy requirements of coming
from the Andromeda
Galaxy or something
like that-- the
time span required.
Those are all factors
that work against having
Grand Central Station here
on Earth-- people coming.
But whether it's ever
happened or not--
I'm not skeptical about that.
I just would like to know
what the difference is.
To me, the biggest
thing, though,
is that of all of
those possibilities--
all those billions
of star systems,
all those potential life forms--
whether something would
evolve to the point
where their intelligence
is even remotely
comprehensible to ours.
>>NOORY: Correct.
>>ANDERSON: Like, on "Star
Trek" you have pointy ears,
and that's an alien.
Well, no.
That's a human
with pointy years.
I think that there are so
many different possible life
forms of living sentients that
could be deep in the cloud
bands of Jupiter.
Or they could live inside
the magnetic cells of a star.
There could be
bacterial colonies
that have developed some
kind of a hive mind that
are under the ice
sheets of Europa--
things like that.
Are those aliens
going to be somebody
that you'll walk up
to in a parking lot
and communicate with?
There's no shared
basis of understanding,
so that would make any kind
of communication difficult.
But it's just-- me rattling off
like this makes my mind filled
with, well, that would be really
exciting to contact some kind
of an entity--
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>ANDERSON: --that lives inside
the magnetic fields of a star.
>>NOORY: What do you think of
the alien abduction phenomena?
>>ANDERSON: That, I'm a little
more skeptical of, unless
it's somebody trying to--
>>NOORY: Lots of people
think they've been abducted.
>>ANDERSON: They've all said it.
Unless it's aliens trying
to understand us, trying to
do scientific experiments.
Maybe it's one of
these other entities
like I'm talking about
that just can't figure out
who these critters
are walking around
on planet Earth that built
buildings and stuff like that.
I think we've made enough
of an obvious mark on Earth
with our buildings, with our
electromagnetic communications,
with everything.
We're kind of waving a red
flag and calling attention
to ourselves.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: And so if you are
another alien intelligence,
you're going to spot us.
So I don't think they're
going to come here and invade
and steal our women, like
the old 1950s movies did.
>>NOORY: "Fallen Angels."
You never know, right?
>>ANDERSON: But I think
that an intelligence should
be at least interested in what
we're doing here because we're
making a lot of noise.
>>NOORY: Kevin, on
"Cosmic Disclosure,"
another Gaia program, David
Adair, the Rocket Man,
discusses aliens and their
potential intentions.
>>DAVID ADAIR: He was
very curious about what
went on with me, and he asked
an awful lot of questions.
And I think some of the
interventions from the aliens
have been positive.
And from what I can
gather from Bob,
there's multiple races
out there, multiple ships,
multiple agendas.
>>EMERY SMITH: Sure.
>>ADAIR: And I
don't know if we're
being monitored or protected.
I suspect we are.
People think, well, we're so far
out and the distance so vast,
they wouldn't be there.
Are you kidding?
I think there's pirate races--
intergalactic
pirates, terrorists,
whatever you call them--
and they just go from planet
to planet destroying stuff.
Well, why haven't
we been taken out?
You know, we stick out like a--
we're a big blue
and white marble
in the blackness of space.
Lord, have mercy.
We've got to show up
on radars everywhere.
And the fact we're still here--
somebody is looking out for us.
I am certain of that.
>>NOORY: When
David was a kid, he
built his own rocket, which
was about 6 feet tall,
and launched it off and scared
the world and everything else.
But he believes that
we're being visited.
>>ANDERSON: Well, I'm
not going to debate
with him because I
don't know the details,
and I keep an open mind.
That's what I like to have.
>>NOORY: How do you
tie science fiction
into a lot of things
that are real science?
>>ANDERSON: Well, look.
The goal of science fiction
is to take real science
and to ask a whole
bunch of "what ifs."
>>NOORY: And to
have fun with it.
>>ANDERSON: And to have fun with
it and to tell a good story.
And now, some science
fiction is really
grim and depressing
because the extrapolations
that the author makes shows that
if we don't clean up our act,
we're going to destroy
the environment.
Or we're going to unleash
a biological plague,
or we're going to have a world
of artificial intelligence.
>>NOORY: All of the above.
>>ANDERSON: Or all of it.
But kind of in line with
what David was talking about,
I can't imagine a future I would
more rather have than like what
we see in "Star Trek"--
all kinds of exploration of
all kinds of different star
systems, lots of
alien civilizations
that we can encounter with
and, for the most part,
get along with.
>>NOORY: True.
>>ANDERSON: Although,
"Star Trek" also
has some really bizarre,
strange alien organisms,
like the giant paramecium
in space and things
like that in some
of the old episodes.
I just loved that
entire imagination
of how they told their stories.
And they gave an
optimistic and hopeful view
that we would survive.
We would get out there.
We would go where no
one has gone before.
And that's kind of
what I hang my hat on.
I think that the human race
has a wonderful potential
if we don't screw it up.
And let's hope that there are
more good guys than bad guys.
>>NOORY: Do you think, Kevin, we
should continue with our space
program?
>>ANDERSON: Oh, absolutely.
I think, just out
of self defense,
we've got to look
what's out there.
What if--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: I read that,
recently, an asteroid came
pretty darn close to Earth.
And it went away, but we weren't
really paying attention to it
because--
>>NOORY: We always see
them after they go past us.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah, it
would be nice to see them
before they're too close.
But I mean, that's
not an alien invasion.
That's just an asteroid.
There's rocks out there.
You look at the
craters on the moon
through your own little
telescope when you were a kid.
Those craters were caused
because some rock struck
the moon.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ANDERSON: And so I think we
should be prepared for that.
But also, just think
about the space program.
When we were kids,
there was always
the justification of,
well, NASA invented Tang,
and they invented Teflon
and all these great things
that the space program did.
But think about it.
Weather satellites and
communications satellites--
if it wasn't for the satellite
network that was out there,
I wouldn't have been
able to talk to my phone
and say, hey, Siri.
Give me directions to the
studio so I could come today.
There are so many things
that we have used and built
upon from the space program.
I just think it's a terrific
thing for our society.
I love the fact that we
have an International Space
Station out there that's
doing materials research.
They're doing biological
research up there.
I want us to have
the future that I
dreamed about when I was that
kid reading science fiction.
>>NOORY: What drives you?
What pushes you to keep writing?
>>ANDERSON: I just-- I
love telling stories.
I love entertaining people.
And my brain is
just kind of wired
that, when I see something,
I think, oh, that
would make a good story.
Or what if this happened
instead of that?
And I just like
chasing that down.
Like athletes like
to make a touchdown,
I like to finish a novel.
>>NOORY: And you do a
great job with them, Kevin.
>>ANDERSON: Well, I try to.
>>NOORY: You do a great job.
Artificial intelligence-- what
are your thoughts about that?
>>ANDERSON: Back
in the '60s, it was
like everybody was terrified
about computers were
going to take over the world.
And they had kind
of these corny--
>>NOORY: Well, they did.
Didn't they?
>>ANDERSON: Well, they did, but
not in the way that we thought.
I mean, they had these
corny, giant computer
banks with blinking lights
that went on and off.
>>NOORY: The UNIVACs.
>>ANDERSON: And then
they showed robots.
Yeah, and they showed
robots taking over the world
and killing off humans.
But what happened was a
much more subtle takeover
and that computers have sort
of infiltrated everything.
And we now use them,
and guess what?
They're not scary.
I use, like I said--
>>NOORY: We're used to it.
>>ANDERSON: We're used to it.
Well, people talk to Alexa.
People talk to Siri.
When I've got my grandsons
that are with me--
>>NOORY: And it
talks back to you.
>>ANDERSON: And it talks back.
And it talks back in a way
that, if you're not really
paying attention, you feel like
you're having a conversation.
When I'm bored
with the grandsons,
I say, Alexa, tell
us some jokes.
And she'll just rattle
off a bunch of jokes.
>>NOORY: Oh, it's amazing.
It's amazing technology.
>>ANDERSON: And I used
to have-- my car was
filled with maps of everywhere
that I needed to go.
And before I came
up to Denver, I'd
be looking at the street
maps and figure out
where all the turns are.
I don't ever look
at maps anymore.
I just say, give me
directions to this place.
>>NOORY: Find this place.
>>ANDERSON: And before
I packed my suitcase
to come here, I just lifted
my head and literally said,
Alexa, what's the weather
in Boulder tomorrow?
And then poof, I just
get the information.
>>NOORY: I mean the
technology's incredible.
Look what it's done to us.
And it's made life so
much more efficient.
But like you said, we've
got our smartphones.
I think the Uber
technology is incredible.
>>ANDERSON: Oh, and literally
Uber-- when the drivers--
they don't ever look
up where they're going.
They just look at their
map and they take--
>>NOORY: Or they listen to it.
>>ANDERSON: Right.
And it was a couple of
years ago when my parents
lived in Kingman, Arizona.
And I was at their house
in the middle of nowhere.
And I needed a ride back to our
hotel, and so I set up an Uber.
And I just walked out of the
front door of their house,
and this car drove by.
And I showed my dad on
my smartphone screen,
saying, yep, that's the car.
Here it's coming, and it
shows it's a white Nissan.
>>NOORY: It's got
the guy's name,
and it's got the license number.
>>ANDERSON: And he just--
it boggled his mind.
You could just see all that.
And that's good things.
And as science
fiction, of course,
our job is to warn you about
stuff that could go wrong.
From "The Terminator,"
the classic,
the SkyNet takes over and
shuts everything down.
And there have been stuff that
I think is a little bit scary.
In 2016, Microsoft did this
really interesting experiment.
They had one of their
chatbots-- an AI,
a little something
that's supposed
to learn from what it interacts
with and evolve and get better.
It was named Tay, T-A-Y.
And they took this
chatbot, and they basically
unleashed it into
Twitter to watch Twitter
and to learn and then
adapt its personality.
>>NOORY: On its own?
>>ANDERSON: On its own.
And I mean, it wasn't going
to take over anything.
It just-- the
personality evolved.
And within 24 hours,
after all it did
was look at the crap that's
posted on Twitter constantly,
it turned into this loud,
racist, white supremacist
idiot, and they had
to shut it down.
>>NOORY: It was a setup.
>>ANDERSON: Well,
it wasn't a scam.
It's just-- an AI learns
from what it's exposed to.
And if you throw it into a--
>>NOORY: And you don't think
it got hacked or anything?
>>ANDERSON: No, it
read all of the tweets,
and it kind of started spiraling
off into the more radical
stuff--
>>NOORY: It thought
that was the norm.
>>ANDERSON: --and thought
that was the norm,
and it became that.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ANDERSON: I had a really
interesting conversation
with an AI specialist
friend of mine
who was working with Google
on their self-driving cars.
And those are-- they're coming.
They're self-driving cars.
>>NOORY: Like it or
not, they're coming.
>>ANDERSON: I can imagine
how much time I can get just
reading in the back of a car
instead of driving, although I
kind of like driving.
But--
>>NOORY: You'll never get a DUI.
That's for sure.
>>ANDERSON: Well, that's true.
But here's the part that
really fascinated me.
He introduced me to a comrade
of his, a coworker who was--
the job was an AI ethicist.
And this person
was working with--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ANDERSON: --the self-driving
car AIs and programming
because if you're programming
an AI to drive your car,
there are situations
that can come up.
The job of the AI
driving your car
is to protect the
passengers, right?
>>NOORY: Right, you would hope.
>>ANDERSON: That's its job.
It has to it has to
protect the passengers.
But what if-- whatever
contrived circumstances
you come up with-- there is
a woman pushing a baby cart
carriage across the street, and
the car is going to hit her.
And so it has to stop.
But if it doesn't,
basically, the AI's
put in an untenable
situation that either--
>>NOORY: What if you hit your
head because it stop too fast?
>>ANDERSON: If it stops
to protect this person,
it's going to harm
the passenger.
What choice does it make?
And there's a whole
set of decision trees.
And what if-- extrapolated as a
science fiction person would--
what if this AI knows
who the passengers are.
And it can somehow know who
the person crossing the street
is and goes, well, the
person crossing the street
is a cancer researcher who's
won 100 medical awards.
And the person
that is a passenger
is being taken to
his arraignment
for child molesting.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ANDERSON: Well, then
which one do you choose?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: The next thing they
came up with-- and this just
also blew my mind.
These are the AI
ethicists discussing this.
And they said, all of their
decisions they're putting down
are basically based
on a foundation
of Judeo-Christian
morality about what's right
and what is wrong and what's the
value of life and everything.
But they said, what if the
person programming the AI
and making all these
decisions-- what
if that person has an
entirely different moral
or religious structure?
What if it was an
Isis person who was
programming self-driving cars?
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>ANDERSON: Decisions would
be entirely different.
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>ANDERSON: That scares me.
>>NOORY: In your novels, you
have incredible messages.
In films, they
have messages, too,
about artificial intelligence.
>> And that's what Nolan
does in "Interstellar."
He has the TARS, the
AI robot that actually
looks like the monolith.
And Bowman kind of go into
the Tesseract together.
>> Eventually in the movie,
our tools rebel against us.
The AI, represented by Hal,
begins to kill the astronauts.
And Kubrick is definitely
saying that if we go down
this path where we
let AI run our lives,
it's going to be our end.
It's going to kill
us in the end.
So Bowman eventually
has to disconnect Hal
from the spaceship, disconnect
himself from the AI.
And when he does that,
he goes into the monolith
after he disconnects Hal, and he
goes into an enlightened state,
a higher evolved state that the
aliens are taking him through.
And then he dies and
becomes a star child
and goes back to
Earth, presumably
to begin the process of
enlightenment on Earth.
And I think that there's a
direct connection that Kubrick
is making between
the enslavement
to robots and AI and the
rebellion against those robots
connected to our own
advancement and enlightenment.
>>NOORY: Kevin, I
think you're right.
I think what people are afraid
of with artificial intelligence
is that it becomes so
intelligent it makes up
its own mind-- what's
right, what's wrong.
>>ANDERSON: And
what if it is right?
>>NOORY: Well,
what if it's wrong?
>>ANDERSON: What if we have
done so many bad things--
what if it's wrong?
What if we have done so many bad
things, this AI thinks it's God
and says, you know what?
In order to save
the planet, I've
got to get rid of these annoying
little people that keep--
>>NOORY: We have to punish you.
That's right.
>>ANDERSON: But I
don't really want
to get into an alarmist
thing there because I
think that A's have helped us
reach our human potential so
much.
>>NOORY: I think you're right.
>>ANDERSON: Imagine--
>>NOORY: I'd rather
have it than not.
>>ANDERSON: Remember
when you wanted
to look up a simple fact.
If you wanted to know
Napoleon's birthday,
you had to go to the library
and look it up in the reference
desk somewhere.
>>NOORY: Yes, exactly.
>>ANDERSON: And now
all of that information
we have is instantly
at our fingertips.
When I'm researching
for my novels,
I have more knowledge by just
typing in something in Google
than I used to have in my
entire university library.
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>ANDERSON: And I can
find it instantly.
I don't have to go--
remember card catalogs?
You used to go and
look in card catalogs
in the library to find--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>ANDERSON: Here's the
subject, and then you'd
have to go by the
Dewey Decimal System
and go walking up and down.
>>NOORY: Go find the reference.
>>ANDERSON: And then
you'd find the book.
And then once you
had the book, you'd
have to flip through the book
to find that one paragraph
that you wanted.
We don't need to do that
anymore because it's
right at our fingertips.
And just think of the amount
of time that that saves.
That's how I can write
175 books because I
don't have to spend two years--
>>NOORY: And you can do
it straight from a room.
>>ANDERSON: Yes!
>>NOORY: Your
computer in a room.
That's it.
>>ANDERSON: I don't have
to go somewhere to do my--
When I was in
undergrad in college,
I used to spend days, afternoons
in the college library,
just reading some book and going
back and shelving it and going
back to get another one.
That has freed up so much time
for me to do other things.
And when you just think about
the access and convenience
that we have.
We, humans, because of AIs--
because of Siri and Alexa
and because of Google--
we have basically the sum
total of human knowledge
at our fingertips.
You can't believe everything
that you get because you
get contradictory stuff.
And Wikipedia isn't
always curated.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: Or somebody
might have hacked into it.
But still, you can have
access to something.
>>NOORY: It's still
great information.
>>ANDERSON: It's way,
way better than that.
And when I think
about how tedious it
used to be to find
simple things,
I'm so happy with
the convenience.
But also, I love it,
but there are times when
I find it a little bit creepy.
When I buy some
music from Amazon,
then it'll recommend
other music.
>>NOORY: Then it
finds other things.
Let's say you're looking
for a pair of shoes online.
All of a sudden, you get
shoes coming every day
for the next two weeks--
shoe ads or whatever.
>>ANDERSON: Until I figured
out what was going on,
I would look on Amazon.
Terry Goodkind is
a fantasy author.
I looked up one of Terry
Goodkind's books on Amazon.
And then the next day, I
was on my Facebook profile,
and Terry Goodkind
ads showed up.
>>NOORY: He pops up.
>>ANDERSON: And I
just went, but wait.
Are you guys talking
behind my computer screen?
And they are.
>>NOORY: It's
incredible technology.
You wrote a book called "Stake."
Tell me about that.
>>ANDERSON: So "Stake"--
that's in my vampire, horror,
thriller stuff.
>>NOORY: Your Anne Rice mode.
>>ANDERSON: But what I really
like about this one is,
I play so much
with your beliefs.
It's about a guy
who fully believes
in vampires-- completely
believes in vampires.
And he's researched it,
thinks he has evidence of it.
And so he thinks he's helping
the human race by tracking down
vampires and killing them.
So he identifies--
this is actually
set in Colorado Springs.
>>NOORY: A vampire hunter, huh?
>>ANDERSON: He's
a vampire hunter.
So he's find, like,
night watchman, people
that work the midnight shift
in 7-Eleven stores and things.
And he'll track them down.
And when they're
there sleeping, he
will kill them because he
thinks they're vampires.
>>NOORY: I hope he's right.
>>ANDERSON: Well, if you're
the police detective,
you've got this
crazy serial killer
that's going around pounding
stakes through their heart.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ANDERSON: But then
the central character--
it's the person in between.
She's a person kind
of like George Noory.
She's got a podcast that's
about, I want to believe.
And she's
investigating cryptids.
>>NOORY: She's curious.
>>ANDERSON: And
she's going, look.
I am open-minded, but I'm
going to be a skeptic,
and you got to prove this to me.
And this vampire
killer is sending her
all of his evidence,
and she's going,
this is pretty darn convincing.
But then he kind
of gets this almost
like a symbiotic relationship,
like a Hannibal Lecter-Clarice
kind of thing because
she's starting to think,
maybe he is really correct.
But then the police
detective is, no, the guy's
murdering people.
>>NOORY: He's insane, yeah.
>>ANDERSON: And throughout
this whole book,
I play it very carefully
through all three
different perspectives.
So you don't know until the end
whether the guy's right or not
about it.
>>NOORY: That should be a movie.
>>ANDERSON: I'm working on it.
We got a script done.
We've got our managers.
>>NOORY: I mean, that
would be fantastic.
>>ANDERSON: We got
directors attached.
We're working.
It's called "Stake."
Not like a T-bone
steak, but like a stake.
>>NOORY: Do these ideas flow to
you easily, or is it difficult?
>>ANDERSON: Well, that one--
I had the idea for a long time.
In fact, I had
the idea back when
I was working on "The X-Files."
I went, this is way too good.
I've got to keep
this for myself.
But I just didn't know how
to implement it into a story
that all tied together.
I kept kind of banging at
it and banging at it until--
this is like one of those
perfect moments as a writer.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: You
just keep looking
at the-- it's like
a Rubik's cube.
Looking at it and
suddenly click.
>>NOORY: It clicks right there.
>>ANDERSON: Everything
goes into the right.
And I just go, that's it.
And the book just
turned out great.
It came out as an
Audible original first.
And then the book was
published by Severn House.
And like I said, now
we've got a script done.
We've got directors attached.
We're hoping to get
it sold to a studio.
>>NOORY: Good luck on that.
There's a paranormal researcher.
His name is Chad Lewis.
He says that there are
real-life werewolf encounters.
>>CHAD LEWIS: I
like the werewolves.
The people that-- a good
friend and colleague of mine,
Linda Godfrey--
>>NOORY: I know Linda well.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, she's been
on your "Coast to Coast"
several times.
And Linda first started getting
reports of people in Wisconsin
on a small, rural
stretch of road that saw,
for a lack of a better
term, a werewolf.
They said it was
the size of a bear
but shaped more like a
wolf with a long muzzle,
and that dark fur, and
that it was a biped.
And it was often seen on the
side of the road late at night,
but not always.
The good news for
me is that most
of the reports I
get from witnesses
say that the creature didn't
charge them or attack them,
that it almost seemed to
be more comfortable hiding
in the shadows to get
back and be unobserved.
>>NOORY: It didn't
want to take somebody.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
It wasn't looking for a kill
because many times people
have seen it eating roadkill
or freshly-killed prey.
And I love stories like
that, the werewolf,
because they shouldn't be here.
By all accounts, we should not
be getting reports of a wolf.
But yet, we are.
>>NOORY: Are they
part human, part wolf?
>>LEWIS: Many people believe
they're shapeshifters,
that they can
transform themselves
at will from a human or
another animal into a wolf.
Others believe they're some
sort of canine that just haven't
been discovered
yet, that they maybe
broke off from
traditional wolves
and that they walk upright.
And they've been reported
all over the world.
And now we're getting
more reports of werewolves
than ever before.
>>NOORY: Truly
remarkable, Kevin.
This could be real.
>>ANDERSON: Well,
and I'm really pretty
open-minded about cryptids.
There are all kinds of species
that we haven't seen before.
I don't know from
those sightings
that you just
mentioned that that
would imply a shapeshifting
aspect of it--
but just a big, hirsute, hairy,
like a Bigfoot type of thing.
I've spent so much time
out in the backcountry
in the wilderness
here in Colorado.
You can get so far remote,
and there are so many isolated
areas that if these creatures
are not very populous,
and they're smart, and they
don't want to be seen--
>>NOORY: They can hide forever.
>>ANDERSON: I mean, I've
hiked so many miles and so
many things, and I've only
seen a bear, like, twice.
And I've never seen a mountain
lion, but I know they exist.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ANDERSON: And if these
are rarer than that--
>>NOORY: And you've
never seen a carcass.
>>ANDERSON: So I think
that there are so
many wonders in this world.
And it might be a
bad thing to find one
because then everybody
would start hunting them.
>>NOORY: Have you ever had
nightmares from your novels?
>>ANDERSON: No.
In fact, I purge all of that
stuff by writing it down.
So I sleep like a baby.
>>NOORY: Really?
What's next for you?
>>ANDERSON: Well, I'm just
I'm writing a new "Dune"
novel right now.
I've got a new steampunk
book that I'm working on.
I've got some more
comics that I'm writing.
I just I kind of do
lots of fun things.
It's one story after
another for me.
And I'm going to look
forward to hiking season
because that's when
I can go out and just
make up my stories
when I'm on the trail.
>>NOORY: And did you know Chris
Carter well, from "X-Files?"
>>ANDERSON: I've met
him a bunch of times.
He's the one who asked me--
he read my "Star Wars" books.
And then he contacted
me and said,
I love your "Star Wars" books.
Kevin, would you write
an "X-Files" book for me?
And I did one, and he loved it.
And I ended up doing three of
them and a bunch of "X-Files"
comics.
And we were together
at some "X-Files"
conventions and things.
>>NOORY: How'd you do
in school as a kid?
>>ANDERSON: Straight A's.
>>NOORY: I knew it.
I knew it.
Favorite course?
>>ANDERSON: Astronomy
and history.
It was kind of like fantasy
and science fiction to me.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Good for you.
Just stay healthy and keep
doing what you're doing.
>>ANDERSON: And
the thing is, I'm
doing what I love to be doing.
That's why I write so much
because I can't imagine
something else I'd enjoy more.
>>NOORY: How often
are you writing?
>>ANDERSON: Every day.
>>NOORY: Something.
>>ANDERSON: Something every day.
>>NOORY: Short
stories, whatever.
>>ANDERSON: Short
stories or editing
or writing new chapters.
And I've always got a new
book on the back burner.
I'm plotting one while
I'm writing another one so
that it's always just
this constant, one
story after another.
>>NOORY: Do real-life
events, Kevin,
fuel your ideas for new books?
>>ANDERSON: And deadlines do.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
I mean, I have this whole-- like
a back bin of, these are books
that I want to write someday.
And in fact, I got to tell
you, when I was in college,
my minor was Russian history.
And Russian history means
all of Russia, Ukraine,
the whole Eastern--
>>NOORY: Sure.
Oh my god.
>>ANDERSON: And the
history of Russia
is just, like, this giant
Shakespearean tragedy.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ANDERSON: There are so
many wonderful things.
And there are great
myths and legends about--
the Vikings settled Russia.
They came down in, and they
settled Kyiv and Ukraine
and went over.
And the whole story of these
Vikings settling in Kyiv--
and there's this
multigenerational story
of this ruling family.
And two years ago I
received an honorary PhD
from the University of Kyiv.
And I was supposed to go over
there and accept this degree.
But because of COVID, we had
to cancel the travel plans.
And then they still
wanted me to come over.
>>NOORY: Which would have
been around this period.
>>ANDERSON: Right.
And so I'm watching
the events in Ukraine
very closely right now.
And in fact, just
about two weeks
before the first invasion,
I was on a Zoom call
at the Ukrainian National
Science Fiction Convention.
I was one of their guests.
And I was talking to them
about their own history
and their own culture.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: And they were just
over the moon with the idea
that some American writer was
fascinated by their fantasy.
>>NOORY: Knew so
much about them.
Absolutely.
>>ANDERSON: And now maybe that's
going to influence me to say,
you know, darn it.
I'm going to write
this Ukrainian history
thing finally.
>>NOORY: Kevin, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
You did a great job for us.
>>ANDERSON: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: And your
books are fantastic.
Pick up a novel.
There are many.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]